# Optimal-habitat-configurations-for-species-persistence
The gist of the code is based off cluster analysis. The type of clustering used to measure persistence is hierarchical clustering. We assume that connectivity brings about persistence although the literature is pretty complex on that matter (sometimes the opposite is true; habitat fragmentation brings about species persistences). Hierarchical clustering is different from other clustering models in the sense that it capitalizes upon connectivity as a criterion for grouping objects (in our case; habitat) together.

The literature suggests that habitat fragmentation is detrimental to species persistence (but not biodiversity) in the case of single-species models which is the case here. That said, the search for computing the eigenvalue in order to measure the persistence of the species via examining the sign of that eigenvalue, we instead proposed a similar approach that replaces the eigenvalue by a more visually explicit approach manifested in the average square distance between habitats (Euclidean distance was used).
For the computation of Nconf, two methods were used; the first is based off Monte Carlo simulation which was used due to the irregularity of the problem (ie; there is no such a regular formula or function that computes Nconf explicitly ), after eliminating the Monte Carlo variation (rendering the result to an integer), we get our Nconf value. The second method used is recursion by substraction. Overall, both methods yield consistent results, however, Monte Carlo is computationally efficient compared to recursion (unless memoization techniques are used but there was no way to use them in our case). On the other hand, recursion yield slightly more accurate results because it doesn't deal in randomness.
